in the last video we talked about
precision and recall as an evaluation
metric for classification problems with
skew classes for many applications we'll
want to somehow control the trade-off
between precision and recall let me tell
you how to do that and also show you
some even more effective ways to use
precision and recall as an evaluation
metric for learning algorithms as a
reminder here are the definitions of
precision and recall from the previous
video let's continue our cancer
classification example where y equals 1
if a patient has cancer and y equals 0
otherwise and let's say we've trained a
logistic regression classifier which
outputs probabilities between 0 and 1 so
as usual we're going to predict 1 y
equals 1 if P of X is greater than equal
to 0.5 and predict 0 if the hypothesis
offers a value less than 0.5 and this
classifier may give us some value for
precision and some value for recall but
now suppose we want to predict that the
patient has cancer only if we're very
confident that they really do because
you know if you go to a patient and you
tell them that they have cancer it's
gonna give them a huge shock gives us a
seriously bad news and they may end up
going through a pretty painful treatment
process and so on and so maybe we want
to tell someone that we think they have
cancer only if they are very confident
one way to do this would be to modify
the algorithm so that instead of setting
this threshold at 0.5 we might instead
say they will predict that Y is equal to
1 only of H of X is greater than or
equal to 0.7 so this is my saying well
tell someone they have cancer only if we
think there's a greater than you know
greater than or equal to 70% chance that
they have cancer and if you do this then
you're predicting someone has cancer
only when you're more confident and so
you end up with a classifier
that has higher precision because all of
the patients that you're going to and
say you know we think you have cancer
although those patients are now pretty
ones that you're pretty confident
actually have cancer and so a higher
fraction of the patients that you
predict have cancer will actually turn
out to have cancer because we're making
those predictions only if we're pretty
confident but in contrast this
classifier will have lower recall
because now we're going to make
predictions we're going to predict y
equals 1 on a smaller number of patients
and we can even take this further
instead of setting the threshold at 0.7
we could set this at all point nine and
we'll predict y equals one earlier where
more than 90% certain that the patient
has cancer and so you know a large
fraction of those patients will turn out
to have cancer and so this would be a
high precision classifier will have
lower recall because we want to
correctly detect that those patients
have cancer now consider a different
example suppose we want to avoid missing
too many actual cases of cancer so we
want to avoid false negatives in
particular if a patient actually has
cancer but we fail to tell them that
they have cancer then that could be
really bad because you know if we tell a
patient that they don't have cancer then
they they're not going to go for
treatment and if it turns out that they
have cancer but we fail to tell them
they have cancer well they may not get
treated at all and so that that would be
a really bad outcome they just die
because we told them they don't have
cancer they fail to get treated but it
turns out they actually have cancer so
suppose that when in doubt we want to
predict that y equals 1 so when in doubt
we want to predict that they have cancer
so that at least they look further into
it and the data and these can get
treated in case they do turn out to have
cancer in this case rather than setting
higher probability threshold we might
instead take this particular value and
instead set in to a lower value so maybe
0.3
like so right time by doing so we're
saying that you know what if we think
there's more than a 30% chance that they
have cancer we better be more
conservative and tell them that they may
have cancer so that they can seek
treatment if necessary and in this case
what we would have is going to be a
higher recall classifier because we're
going to be correctly flagging a higher
fraction of all of the patients to
actually do have cancer but we're going
to end up with lower precision because a
higher fraction of the patients that we
said have cancer your higher fraction of
them will turn out not to have cancer
after all and by the way just as an
aside when I talk about this in to two
other students I've been told before you
know it's pretty amazing some of my
students say is how I can tell the
stories both ways to know why we might
want to you know have higher position or
Harvey Cole and the story actually seems
to work both ways
but I hope the details that the
algorithm is true and the more general
principle is depending on where you want
whether you want higher position Lord we
call a Harvey caller position you can
end up predicting y equals 1 when H of X
is greater than some threshold and so in
general there for most classifiers
there's going to be a trade-off between
precision and recall and as you vary the
value of this threshold this value of
this special that when drawing here you
can actually plot out some curve that
trains off precision and recall where a
value up here this would correspond to a
very high value of the threshold maybe
threshold equals 0.99 so that's saying
predict y equals 1 only if we're you
know more than 99% confident at least
99% probability this one so that'd be a
high precision relatively low recall
whereas a point down here will
correspond to a value of the threshold
that's my
lower the vehicle you know 0.01 meaning
home when it doubt at all predict y
equals one and if you do that you end up
with a much lower precision higher
recall classifier and as you vary the
threshold you can if you want you can
actually trace all the current for your
classifier to see the range of different
values you can get for precision recall
and by the way the precision recall
curve can look like a many different
shapes sometimes they look like this
sometimes look like that you know there
are many different possible shapes from
the position recall curve depending on
the details of the collimator
so this raises another interesting
question which is this era way to choose
this threshold automatically or more
generally if we have a few different
algorithms there are a few different
ideas for algorithms how do we compare
different precision recall numbers
concretely suppose we have three
different learning algorithms actually
maybe these are three different learning
algorithms maybe these are the same
algorithm but just with different values
for the threshold how do we decide which
of these algorithms is best one of the
things we talked about earlier is the
importance of a single real number
evaluation metric and that is the idea
of having a number they just tells you
how well is your classifier doing but by
switching to the precision recall metric
we've actually lost that we now have two
real numbers and so we often may end up
facing situations like if we try to
compare algorithm one in algorithm to
you know we have them asking ourselves
as a precision of 0.5 and recall point
four well is that better or worse than
the position of point seven and recall
of 0.1 and if every time you try out a
new algorithm you end up having to sit
around and think well maybe point five
point four is better than point seven
point one or maybe known I don't know if
you end up having to sit around and
think and make these decisions that
really slows down your decision-making
process for what thinks what changes are
useful to incorporate into your
algorithm whereas in contrast if we have
a single real number evaluation metric
like a number that just tells us is
everyone or is algorithm together
that that helps us to much more quickly
decide which algorithm to go with and
house us as well to much more quickly
evaluate different changes that we may
be contemplating for an algorithm so how
can we get a single real number
evaluation metric one natural thing that
you might try is to look at the average
between precision and recall so using P
and R to denote precision recall one
thing could do is just compute the
average and look at what classifier has
the highest average value but this turns
out not to be such a good solution
because similar to the example we had
earlier it turns out that if we have a
classifier that predicts y equals 1 all
the time then if you do that you can get
a very high recall but you end up with a
very low value of precision conversely
if you have a classifier that predicts y
equals 0 almost all the time that is if
it predicts y equals 1 very sparingly
this corresponds to setting a very high
threshold using the notation of the
previous line then you can actually end
up with a very hard position to the very
low recall so the two extremes of either
a very high threshold or a very low
threshold neither of that would give a
particularly good classifier and the way
we recognize that is by seeing if we end
up with a very low precision or or a
very low recall and if you just take the
average of people as are our two ones
this example the average is actually
highest for however three even though
you can get that sort of performance by
protecting y equals 1 all the time and
that's just not a very good classifier
right if you predict y equals 1 all the
time it's just not a useful cause 5 it
if all does this prints out y equals 1
and so every one or algorithm 2 would be
more useful than other than 3 but in
this example algorithm 3 has a higher
average value of precision recall than
algorithm 1 and 2 so we usually think of
this average of position of Iko as not a
particularly good way to evaluate our
learning
in contrast just a different way if a
combining precision and we call is
called the F score and uses that formula
and so in this example here are the F
scores and so we would tell from from
these F schools and looks like everyone
has the highest F score out of 200
second highest in thousand three has the
lowest and so you know if we go by the F
scope we would pick per the album one
over the others the F score which is
also called the f1 score is usually
written F one school that I have here
but often people will just say F scores
you needn't either term us use is a
little bit like taking the average of
precision V call but to gives the lower
value of precision in V column whichever
it is it gives it a higher weight and so
you see in the numerator here that the F
score takes a product or position and we
call and so if either precision is zero
or recall is equal to zero the F school
will be equal to zero so in that sense
it kind of combines precision recall but
you know for the F school to be large
both precision and V code have to be
pretty large I should say that there are
many different possible formulas for
combining precision we call this F score
formula is really maybe a just one out
of a much larger number of possibilities
but historically our traditionally this
is what people in machine learning seem
to use and the term F score you know it
doesn't really mean anything so don't
worry about why it's called F score or
f1 score but this usually gives you the
effect that you want because if either a
precision the zero or we call a zero
this gives you a very low F score and so
to have a high F score
you kind of need a prisoner we call to
be one and concretely um if P equals 0
or R equals zero then this gives you
that the F score
equals zero whereas a perfect f school
so if precision equals one and we call
equals one that would give you an F
score that's equal to one times one over
two times two so the F school will be
equal to one if you have perfect
precision and perfect recall
and intermediate values between zero and
one you know this usually gives a
reasonable back ordering of different
classifiers
so in this video we talked about the
notion of trading off between precision
and recall and how we can vary the
threshold that we use to decide whether
to predict y equals 1 or y equals 0 this
is a special and it says you know that
we need to be at least by 70% confident
or 90% confident or whatever before we
predict y equals 1 and by varying the
threshold you can control a trade-off
between precision and recall we also
talked about the F score which takes
precision and recall and again gives you
a single real number evaluation metric
and of course if you go is to
automatically set that threshold to
decide what to many y equals 1 and y
equals 0 one pretty means no way to do
that would also be to try a range of
different values of threshold so to try
a range of values of threshold and
evaluate these different thresholds on
stereo cross-validation set and then to
pick whatever value of threshold gives
you the highest F score on your cross
validation set that'd be a pretty
reasonable way to automatically choose
the threshold for your classifier as
well